Feat api.md for library (#1)
amperka/AmperkaCCS811: API.md

# AmperkaCCS811 API

## `class CCS811`

> Create an object of type `CCS811` to communicate with a particular [Air Quality Sensor](https://amperka.ru/product/sensor-co2-ccs811-with-case).

Reviewer: Create -> Creates

Reviewer 2: In this case, “create” is an instruction for the user. A C++ class per se does not create anything: the constructor does but the class is not. Co, “create” is correct

Author: Ok. Close comment.

### `CCS811(uint8_t i2cAddress = 0x5A)`

> Constructs a new object. The argument `i2cAddress` is the specifies the board I²C address in HEX value, which is `0x5A` factory-default but can be changed is `0x5B`. If omitted, the board I²C address is `0x5A`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Constructs a new object. The argument `i2cAddress` is the specifies the board I²C address in HEX value, which is `0x5A` factory-default but can be changed to `0x5B`. If omitted, the board I²C address is `0x5A`.
```

Author: Done

> ### `void begin(TwoWire* wire = &Wire)`

Reviewer: We can return a  boolean value in the `begin` method to check if the sensor connection is correct.

Author: Ok, changed function type `void` to `bool`.

Initializes the given interface, prepares the board for communication. The argument `wire` is an index of the TwoWire interface.
If omitted, the connection started on default hardware I²C.

> ### `void setDriveMode(uint8_t mode)`

Reviewer 3: I think `measurementPeriod` will be better. And add constans enum class  Period { Idle, onePerSec, sixPerMin, onePerMin} for example.

Reviewer: I agree that a `measurementPeriod` would be better. But the datasheet describes precisely the operating modes. I think we should follow it.

Author: I propose to combine both wishes:

```cpp
void setDriveMode(Measure mode)
```

Details in the next comment.

> ### `void setDriveMode(uint8_t mode)`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### `void setDriveMode(Measure period)`
```
Where Measure is `enum class Measure { SLEEP, ONE_PER_SEC, SIX_PER_MIN, ONE_PER_MIN, SIX_PER_HOUR, FOUR_PER_SEC };`

Author: I propose to combine both wishes:
```suggestion
### `void setDriveMode(Measure mode)`
```

> Sets the drive mode, which is responsible for the sample rate and power consumption of the sensor. The argument `mode` is the range from `0` to `3`:

Reviewer: CCS811 has 5 modes according to datasheet.

Reviewer 3: I am add 5 as enum name

Author: Done, details in the next comment from @yurybotov

> Sets the drive mode, which is responsible for the sample rate and power consumption of the sensor. The argument `mode` is the range from `0` to `3`:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Sets the drive mode, which is responsible for the sample rate and power consumption of the sensor. Valid argument `mode` values is:
```

Author: Cool

> - `0` – Idle. IAQ measurements are disabled, and consumption is 0,034 mW.

Reviewer: What is IAQ? Decryption of abbreviation is required.

Author: Ok, description in the next comment.

> - `0` – Idle. IAQ measurements are disabled, and consumption is 0,034 mW.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `Measure::SLEEP` – Idle. IAQ measurements are disabled, and consumption is 0,034 mW.
```

Author: Done

> - `1` – Constant power mode. IAQ measurement every 1 second, consumption is 46 mW.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `Measure::ONE_PER_SEC` – Constant power mode. IAQ measurement every 1 second, consumption is 46 mW.
```

Author: Done

> - `2` – Pulse heating mode. IAQ measurement every 10 seconds, consumption is 7 mW.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `Measure::SIX_PER_MIN` – Pulse heating mode. IAQ measurement every 10 seconds, consumption is 7 mW.
```

Author: Done

> - `3` – Low power pulse mode. IAQ measurement every 60 seconds, consumption is 1,2 mW.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `Measure::ONE_PER_MIN` – Low power pulse mode. IAQ measurement every 60 seconds, consumption is 1,2 mW.

- `Measure::FOUR_PER_SEC`  – Constant power mode. IAQ measurement every 250 milliseconds, consumption more then 46 mW.

```

Reviewer 3: And rearrange previous lines in API.md not in enum class: SLEEP,ONE_PER_MIN,SIX_PER_MIN,ONE_PER_SEC,FOUR_PER_SEC.

Author: In the documentation ССS811 write: 

> In mode 4 (FOUR_PER_SEC)., the ALG_RESULT_DATA is not updated, only RAW_DATA; the processing must be done on the host system.

But, I tested on the sensor and readings TVOC and eCO2 updated. Maybe we have a new version of the sensor CSS811...

> ### `bool available()`

Reviewer 3: Yes, sounds arduino-like. But look as Sensor.available, not Data.available. May be `ready` is better?

Author: Structure (available -> read -> get) and **relevant names** are in many official Arduino libraries:

- Ethernet and GSM Libraries in WebClient.ino:

```cpp
void loop() {
  // if there are incoming bytes available
  // from the server, read them and print them:
  if (client.available()) {
    char c = client.read();
    Serial.print(c);
  }
}
```

- SD Library in DumpFile.ino:

```cpp
  // open the file. note that only one file can be open at a time,
  // so you have to close this one before opening another.
  File dataFile = SD.open("datalog.txt");

  // if the file is available, write to it:
  if (dataFile) {
    while (dataFile.available()) {
      Serial.write(dataFile.read());
    }
    dataFile.close();
  }
  // if the file isn't open, pop up an error:
  else {
    Serial.println("error opening datalog.txt");
  }
```

- Serial port example:

```cpp
void loop() {
  // reply only when you receive data:
  if (Serial.available() > 0) {
    // read the incoming byte:
    incomingByte = Serial.read();

    // say what you got:
    Serial.print("I received: ");
    Serial.println(incomingByte, DEC);
  }
}
```

So, I propose to leave the name method `available`.

Сhecks if data TVOC and CO2 are available to be read using the function `readData`. The method returns `true` if data is available to be read, otherwise `false`.

> ### `void readData()`

Reviewer 3: May be automate it: 
In the `getTVOC` and `get CO2`: test If have new data, is yes load it from sensor else use previous loaded. Then `available` and `readData` is not needed.

Author: We write our libraries based on the official Arduino libraries:
`available -> read -> get` and let this pattern be in all libraries.
See examples in the previous comment.

Some modules cannot read only one parameter at a time, all are read (DHTxx, for example). I suggest writing libraries in one style.

For a single style: rename method `readData` to `read` .

> ### `void readData()`

Reviewer: Why does the `readData` method return` void`? He could return reading status.

Author: Changed type function `void` to `bool` and added function getErrorID().

Reads and stored the sensor data values TVOC and CO2. Use the `getTVOC` and`getCO2` methods to access the received data.

### `uint16_t getTVOC()`

Returns the stored total volatile organic compounds measurement in parts per billion — ranges from `0` to `1187` in `ppb`.
This method does not read data from the sensor. To do so, the call `readData`.

> ### `uint16_t getCO2()`

Reviewer: The sensor measures the equivalent CO2 value (eCO2) https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carbon_dioxide_equivalent

Author: Done.

Returns the stored estimated carbon dioxide measurement in parts per million — ranges from `400` to `8192` in `ppm`.
This method does not read data from the sensor. To do so, the call `readData`.

### `void setEnvironmentData(uint8_t humidity, float temperature)`

> Sets humidity and temperature data from an external sensor to compensate for data for CSS811.

Reviewer 3: Get? humidity and temperature data FROM

Author: Complemented the description

- `humidity`: relative humidity from other sensors. Ranges from `0` to `100` %.
- `temperature`: ambient temperature from other sensors. Ranges from `−25` to `50` °C.

By default, the internal algorithm uses 50 % humidity and 25 °C temperature to compensate for environmental changes. Reads humidity and temperature from other Climatic Sensors, e.g., [Troyka Meteo Sensor](https://amperka.ru/product/troyka-meteo-sensor).

### `void reset()`

> Triggers a software reset of the device, which alternative to Power-On reset or Hardware Reset. The call method `begin` to resume the board for communication.

Reviewer 3: May be put `begin` to `reset` after some timeout?

Author: Maybe, but the function `reset` is used to load the module in boot mode. This is useful if you need to update the software on the sensor.

Author: I thought some time and agree with you. 
I am sure that our user will not update the software in CCS811. The `reset` function will call the `begin` function after a timeout.

# AmperkaCCS811 API

## `class CCS811`

Create an object of type `CCS811` to communicate with a particular [Air Quality Sensor](https://amperka.ru/product/sensor-co2-ccs811-with-case).

### `CCS811(uint8_t i2cAddress = 0x5A)`

> Constructs a new object. The argument `i2cAddress` is the specifies the board I²C address in HEX value, which is `0x5A` factory-default but can be changed to `0x5B`. If omitted, the board I²C address is `0x5A`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Constructs a new object. The argument `i2cAddress` specifies the board I²C address in HEX value, which is `0x5A` factory-default but can be changed to `0x5B`. If omitted, the board I²C address is `0x5A`.
```

Author: Done

### `bool begin(TwoWire* wire = &Wire)`

> Initializes the given interface, prepares the board for communication. Returns `true` device is set up, otherwise `false`. The argument `wire` is an index of the TwoWire interface. If omitted, the connection started on default hardware I²C.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Initializes the given interface, prepares the board for communication. Returns `true` device is set up, otherwise `false`. The argument `wire` is an index of the TwoWire interface. If omitted, the connection starts on default hardware I²C.
```

Author: Done

> Initializes the given interface, prepares the board for communication. Returns `true` device is set up, otherwise `false`. The argument `wire` is an index of the TwoWire interface. If omitted, the connection starts on default hardware I²C.

Reviewer 2: The argument wire is a pointer to the `TwoWire` interface object, not an index.

Author: Please write in more detail.
I used an example from our libraries.
https://github.com/amperka/TroykaOLED/blob/master/src/TroykaOLED.h#L42
https://github.com/amperka/Octoliner/blob/master/src/Octoliner.cpp#L25
https://github.com/amperka/TroykaTextLCD/blob/master/src/TroykaTextLCD.h#L110

Reviewer 3: "The argument `wire is an index of` the TwoWire interface." - Victor say about this text. `wire` - realy pointer not index

Reviewer 2: Yep. Here is a quote from Octoliner’s `API.md` for example:

> Initializes the given interface, prepares the board for communication. If the wire argument is omitted, the connection is started on hardware I2C#0. The method initializes the specified or default TwoWire interface. If it was initialized before this method reinitializes it.

> Initializes the given interface, prepares the board for communication. Returns `true` device is set up, otherwise `false`. The argument `wire` is a pointer to the TwoWire interface. If omitted, the connection starts on default hardware I²C.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Initializes the given interface, prepares the board for communication. Returns `true` if device is set up, otherwise `false`. The argument `wire` is a pointer to the TwoWire interface. If omitted, the connection starts on default hardware I²C.
```

> Initializes the given interface, prepares the board for communication. Returns `true` device is set up, otherwise `false`. The argument `wire` is a pointer to the TwoWire interface. If omitted, the connection starts on default hardware I²C.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Initializes the given interface, prepares the board for communication. Returns `true` device is set up, otherwise `false`. The argument `wire` is a pointer to the TwoWire interface. If omitted, the connection starts with default hardware I²C.
```

> ### `void setDriveMode(Measure mode)`

Reviewer: I think that the type of `mode` is better to name something like `Drive_mode` instead of `Measure` in accordance with the datasheet. Because there is a register MEAS_MODE this can cause confusion.

Author: Ok)

> Sets the drive mode, which is responsible for the sample rate and power consumption of the sensor. Valid argument `mode` values is:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sets the drive mode, which is responsible for the sample rate and power consumption of the sensor. Valid argument `mode` values are:
```

Author: Done

> - `Measure::SLEEP`: Idle. Measurements are disabled, and consumption is 0,034 mW.

Reviewer: Because you changed the type of `mode` to` DriveMode`, here should also be `DriveMode`.

Author: Oops...Done.

- `DriveMode::PERIOD_60S`: low power pulse mode. Measurement every 60 seconds, consumption is 1,2 mW.
- `DriveMode::PERIOD_10S`: pulse heating mode. Measurement every 10 seconds, consumption is 7 mW.

> - `DriveMode::PERIOD_1S`: constant power mode. Measurement every 1 second, consumption is 46 mW. This mode sets by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `DriveMode::PERIOD_1S`: constant power mode. Measurement every 1 second, consumption is 46 mW. This mode is set by default.
```

Author: Done

- `DriveMode::PERIOD_250MS`: constant ultra power mode. Measurement every 250 milliseconds, consumption more then 46 mW.

### `bool available()`

> Сhecks if new data TVOC and CO2 is available. Returns `true` if data is readable, otherwise `false`. Use the `read` method to read and store the sensor data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Сhecks if new TVOC and CO2 data is available. Returns `true` if data is readable, otherwise `false`. Use the `read` method to read and store the sensor data.
```

Author: Done

> Сhecks if new data TVOC and CO2 are available. Returns `true` if data is available to be read, otherwise `false`. Use the `read` method to be read and stored the sensor data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Сhecks if new data TVOC and CO2 is available. Returns `true` if data is readable, otherwise `false`. Use the `read` method to read and store the sensor data.
```

Author: Done

### `bool read()`

> Reads and stored the sensor data values TVOC and CO2. Returns value:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Reads and stores the sensor data values TVOC and CO2. Returns value:
```

Author: Done

> - `true`: if data read successfully. Use the `getTVOC` and `geteCO2` methods to access the received data.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- `true`: if data is read successfully. Use the `getTVOC` and `geteCO2` methods to access the received data.
```

Author: Done

> - `false`: if data read error. Use the `getErrorID` method to access the error ID.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- `false`: if data is read with an error. Use the `getErrorID` method to access the error ID.
```

Author: Done

> ### `String getErrorID()`

Reviewer 2: String? An int-based enum would be more appropriate here.

Author: @nkrkv Yes, but type `uint8_t` returned only the index error, and `String` returned short description the error.

Returns the stored Error ID, when method `read` returned `false`.

- `WRITE_REG_INVALID`: the CCS811 received an I²C write request addressed to this station but with invalid register address ID.
- `READ_REG_INVALID`: the CCS811 received an I²C read request to a mailbox ID that is invalid.
- `MEASMODE_INVALID`: the CCS811 received an I²C request to write an unsupported mode to MEAS_MODE.
- `MAX_RESISTANCE`: the sensor resistance measurement has reached or exceeded the maximum range.
- `HEATER_FAULT`: the Heater current in the CCS811 is not in range.
- `HEATER_SUPPLY`: the Heater voltage is not being applied correctly.

### `uint16_t getTVOC()`

Returns the stored total volatile organic compounds (TVOC), when method `read` returned `true`. Measurement TVOC in parts per billion — ranges from `0` to `1187` in `ppb`.

> ### `uint16_t getCO2()`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `uint16_t geteCO2()`
```

Author: Ok, but the name of this function does not use camel style.
`geteCO2()`

> ### `uint16_t geteCO2()`

Reviewer 3: "... when method `read` returned `true`..." here and next method. But if `read` returned `false`? What returns getTVOC and geteCO2?

Author: If the method `read` returned `false`, that call method `getErrorID.`

> Returns the stored estimated equivalent carbon dioxide (eCO2), when method `read` returned `true`. Measurement eCO2 in parts per million — ranges from `400` to `8192` in `ppm`.

Reviewer 3: the same

Reviewer 3: all other IMHO OK

Author: ditto

> ### `void setEnvironmentData(uint8_t humidity, float temperature)`

Reviewer: Why is the `temperature` type float and `humidity` uint8_t?

Author: Ouch! Must be:
 `void setEnvironmentData(float humidity, float temperature)`

Thanks.

Author: Ouch! Must be:
 `void setEnvironmentData(float humidity, float temperature)`

Thanks.

> Sets humidity and temperature data from other Climatic Sensors to compensate for CSS811 data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sets humidity and temperature data from other Climatic Sensors to compensate CSS811 data.
```

Author: Done

> Sets humidity and temperature data from other Climatic Sensors to compensate CSS811 data.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Sets humidity and temperature data from other climatic sensors to compensate CSS811 data.
```

Author: Done

- `humidity`: relative humidity from other sensors. Ranges from `0` to `100` %.
- `temperature`: ambient temperature from other sensors. Ranges from `−25` to `50` °C.

> By default, the internal algorithm uses 50 % humidity and 25 °C temperature to compensate for environmental changes. Reads humidity and temperature from other Climatic Sensors, e.g., [Troyka Meteo Sensor](https://amperka.ru/product/troyka-meteo-sensor).

Reviewer: Who do you refer "Reads" to? User or method?
If you meant the user, then:
```suggestion
By default, the internal algorithm uses 50 % humidity and 25 °C temperature to compensate for environmental changes. Read humidity and temperature from other Climatic Sensors, e.g., [Troyka Meteo Sensor](https://amperka.ru/product/troyka-meteo-sensor).
```

Author: Done

> By default, the internal algorithm uses 50 % humidity and 25 °C temperature to compensate for environmental changes. Read humidity and temperature from other Climatic Sensors, e.g., [Troyka Meteo Sensor](https://amperka.ru/product/troyka-meteo-sensor).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, the internal algorithm uses 50 % humidity and 25 °C temperature to compensate for environmental changes. Read humidity and temperature from other climatic sensors, e.g., [Troyka Meteo Sensor](https://amperka.ru/product/troyka-meteo-sensor).
```

Author: Oops!

### `void reset()`

> Triggers a software reset of the device, which alternative to Power-On reset or Hardware Reset.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Triggers a software reset of the device, which is an alternative to power-on reset and hardware reset.
```

Author: Done
